Prehistoric Grape Finch

medium

# Use safeTransfer() instead of transfer()

## Summary
Use safeTransfer() instead of transfer()

## Vulnerability Detail

The contest page specifically mentions the use of USDC and USDT or any other tokens.

> Which ERC20 tokens do you expect will interact with the smart contracts?
any, including USDC and USDT

Also, the non-standard behaviour is not acceptable to protocol team,

> Do you expect to use any of the following tokens with non-standard behaviour with the smart contracts?
USDC and USDT are the primary examples.

The issue here is with the use of unsafe transfer() function. The ERC20.transfer() function return a boolean value indicating success. This parameter needs to be checked for success. Some tokens do not revert if the transfer failed but return false instead.

Some tokens (like USDT) don't correctly implement the EIP20 standard and their transfer() function return void instead of a success boolean. Calling these functions with the correct EIP20 function signatures will always revert.

Tokens that don't actually perform the transfer and return false are still counted as a correct transfer and tokens that don't correctly implement the latest EIP20 spec, like USDT, will be unusable in the protocol as they revert the transaction because of the missing return value.

For example: 

In contract like `SecondaryRewarder.recover()` which is used by owner to recover any ERC20 or ETH mistakenly sent to this contract. 

```solidity

    function recover(address token, uint256 amount) external onlyOwner {
        if (Constants.ETH_ADDRESS == token) {
            (bool status,) = msg.sender.call{value: amount}("");
            require(status);
        } else {
            IERC20(token).transfer(msg.sender, amount);          @audit // usage of unsafe transfer, must use safeTransfer 
        }
    }
```

However the function will fail while recovering the USDT and such tokens which does not return value and these tokens if mistakenly sent to the contracts and owner will not able to recover it due to issue as explained above. This will be loss of tokens as owner is incapable to receive it.

## Impact
Tokens that don't actually perform the transfer and return false are still counted as a correct transfer and tokens that don't correctly implement the latest EIP20 spec will be unusable in the protocol as they revert the transaction because of the missing return value. This will lead to loss of token transfers.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-12-notional-update-5/blob/3bf2fb5d992dfd5aa7343d7788e881d3a4294b13/contracts-v3/contracts/external/adapters/SecondaryRewarder.sol#L157

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
Recommend using OpenZeppelin's SafeERC20 versions with the safeTransfer() functions that handle the return value check as well as non-standard-compliant tokens.
