Dry Tweed Hippo

medium

# Necessary rebalance may not occur due to wrongly computed return value from `TreasuryAction._isExternalLendingUnhealthy()`

## Summary

When determining whether external lending is unhealthy via `TreasuryAction._isExternalLendingUnhealthy()`, the return value `isExternalLendingUnhealthy` may be wrong due to an issue with the computation of `offTargetPercentage`.

## Vulnerability Detail

The comment on line 431 in TreasuryAction.sol reads:

> prevent rebalance if change is not greater than 1%, important for health check and avoiding triggering rebalance shortly after rebalance on minimum change

This comment suggests that a rebalance should occur if the change is bigger than 1%. However, due to a computation issue, the rebalance might not be triggered up the a change of 1.98%, thus the external lending may remain in an unhealthy state.

In the code the variable `offTargetPercentage` is used to compute the change (l425-429 TreasuryAction.sol).

Then on line 433-434 the boolean return value `isExternalLendingUnhealthy` is determined by:

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-12-notional-update-5/blob/main/contracts-v3/contracts/external/actions/TreasuryAction.sol#L433-L434

To point out the computation issue, here is an example:

1. Assuming `oracleData.currentExternalUnderlyingLend` = `50000`
1. Assuming `targetAmount` is 1.98% off, which means it highly exceeds the 1% change and a rebalance should occur. 1.98% off means it is 1.98% smaller than the current external underlying lend.
1. `tragetAmount` = `49010` (1.98% smaller than the current external underlying lend)
1. Now `offTargetPercentage` is calculated (l425-429 TreasuryAction.sol):<br>`(50000 - 49010) * 100 / (50000 + 49010) = 99000 / 99010 = 0` due to solidity rounding down when dividing.

In the example above `offTargetPercentage` will be calculated to be 0 despite that the `targetAmount` is 1.98% off in reality.

As a result `isExternalLendingUnhealthy` will be wrongly returned as `false` since `offTargetPercentage` is not bigger than 0 (line 434 TreasuryAction.sol).

`TreasuryAction._isExternalLendingUnhealthy()` is needed to check whether a rebalance is necessary and to perform a rebalance as shown in the function traces:

* checkRebalance()<br>└─_isExternalLendingUnhealthy()

* rebalance()<br>└─_rebalanceCurrency()<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;└─_isExternalLendingUnhealthy()

* setRebalancingTargets()<br>└─_rebalanceCurrency()<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;└─_isExternalLendingUnhealthy()

## Impact

Necessary rebalances may not occur due to this issue leading to under-utilization of external lending.

Any off value for the `targetAmount` between 1.01% and 1.98% below the current external underlying lend may be determined to be healthy due to this issue. Thus rebalancing and redemption (line 395 TreasuryAction.sol) of external lending may not be triggered. As a result missed redemptions of external lending can't be used for reinvesting to generate more yield or to collect earned fees, thus generating a loss for the protocol.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-12-notional-update-5/blob/main/contracts-v3/contracts/external/actions/TreasuryAction.sol#L405-L436

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-12-notional-update-5/blob/main/contracts-v3/contracts/external/actions/TreasuryAction.sol#L273

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-12-notional-update-5/blob/main/contracts-v3/contracts/external/actions/TreasuryAction.sol#L323

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2023-12-notional-update-5/blob/main/contracts-v3/contracts/external/actions/TreasuryAction.sol#L135

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Consider adjusting the calculations inside `TreasuryAction._isExternalLendingUnhealthy()` in order to meet the desired functionality to execute a rebalance when the change is bigger than 1%.
